Update the tiaf dev docs with better info for debugging AR. (#2386)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/engine-dev/tools/tiaf/maintaining-tiaf/debugging-tiaf.md

            {
                "name": "Python: Current File",
                "type": "python",
                "request": "launch",
                "program": "${file}",
                "console": "integratedTerminal",
                "justMyCode": true,
                "args": [
                    "--config", "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/tiaf.json", // Replace with your build path
                    "--src-branch", "PR-15830", // src and dst are different as this is a PR build
                    "--dst-branch", "development",
                    "--commit", "85a0bd96daa4bd330d56bd817e8cdaf29d172b63",
                    "--build-number", "001", // The build number can be anything
                    "--suites", "smoke", "main", // The suites must match those used in AR
                    "--label-excludes", "REQUIRES_gpu", // The label exclude filters must match those used in AR
                    "--test-failure-policy", "continue",
                    "--target-output", "stdout",
                    "--runtime-type", "native" // change to "python" for Python TIAF
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

>     3. Run the TIAF script to generate the change list and arguments used by the TIAF runtime.     

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Run the TIAF script to generate the change list and arguments used by the TIAF runtime.     
```

                    "--commit", "85a0bd96daa4bd330d56bd817e8cdaf29d172b63",
                    "--build-number", "001", // The build number can be anything
                    "--suites", "smoke", "main", // The suites must match those used in AR
                    "--label-excludes", "REQUIRES_gpu", // The label exclude filters must match those used in AR
                    "--test-failure-policy", "continue",
                    "--target-output", "stdout",
                    "--runtime-type", "native" // change to "python" for Python TIAF
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
    ```

        - It's important to set the `dst-branch` to the same branch used in the previous step but the `src-branch` to the PR build where the AR failed. This is for two reasons: firstly, it ensures that you don't overwrite the historic data (as PR builds are not sources of truth and thus do not store their run data in the persistent storage) and secondly, it is required for generating change lists for unrelated previous and current commits (such as commits from unrelated branches).

    3. Run the TIAF script to generate the change list and arguments used by the TIAF runtime.     

> After the script has executed, you will see the same result as the failing AR run (in this instance, a crash) as well as the change list and arguments for the TIAF runtime. The TIAF log output states the following command line options used by the TIAF runtime:

Reviewer: Should be in a new paragraph, but rendered as part of step 3. 
```suggestion

After the script has executed, you will see the same result as the failing AR run (in this instance, a crash) as well as the change list and arguments for the TIAF runtime. The TIAF log output states the following command line options used by the TIAF runtime:
```

            "start_time":2257721140,
            "end_time":2258136771,
            "duration":415631,
            "result":"all_tests_pass",
            "num_passing_tests":1,
            "num_failing_tests":0,
            "num_disabled_tests":0,
            "tests":[
                {
                "name":"MetastreamTest.ServerStartupShutdownTest_FT",
                "result":"passed"
                }
            ]
        }
    
        // rest of data removed for clarity
    ]
    ```

> To run `Gem_Metastream.Tests` test target from your terminal, use the following command, changing the paths to your build of OpenCppCoverage and O3DE accordingly:

Reviewer: Forgot to indent this as step 2 in my previous suggestion
```suggestion
2. To run `Gem_Metastream.Tests` test target from your terminal, use the following command, changing the paths to your build of OpenCppCoverage and O3DE accordingly:
```

For these steps, "TIAF script" refers to the AR-integrated TIAF script, [tiaf_driver.py](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/development/scripts/build/TestImpactAnalysis/tiaf_driver.py). "TIAF runtime" refers to the TIAF runtime and front-end binaries that the TIAF script invokes. For more information, refer to [Architectural Overview](/docs/engine-dev/tools/tiaf/architectural-overview) in the TIAF section.

To reproduce an AR run, perform the following steps:

0. Prerequisite: Obtain environment information about the AR run.
1. Recreate the historic data locally.
2. Build and run the commit failing in AR.
3. Run the TIAF runtime with a debugger attached.

### Prerequisite

To reproduce an AR run locally, you must first obtain all of the environmental information about the AR run in Jenkins. 

1. Navigate to the appropriate Jenkins build.

2. Choose either the `test_impact_analysis_profile_native` or `test_impact_analysis_profile_python` stages to retrieve the console output. 

3. At the top of the console output, see the output of the TIAF script prior to the invocation of the appropriate runtime. For example: 

>     ```

Reviewer: Stray code block
```suggestion
```

    [2023-04-28T22:54:38.730Z] [2023-04-28 22:54:38,262][TIAF][INFO] Transmitting report to MARS...
    [2023-04-28T22:54:38.730Z] [2023-04-28 22:54:38,262][TIAF][INFO] Connecting to Filebeat on localhost:9000
    [2023-04-28T22:54:38.730Z] [2023-04-28 22:54:38,274][TIAF][INFO] Complete!
    [2023-04-28T22:54:38.736Z] --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    [2023-04-28T22:54:38.736Z] [ci_build] FAIL: Command D:\workspace\o3de\scripts\build\Platform/Windows/python_windows.cmd returned 4294967295
    script returned exit code -1
    ```

In this instance, the native TIAF runtime crashes in the AR run, but doesn't crash when run locally. Typically, this issue relates to the historic data and the delta of changes between the last AR run and this failing AR run.

From the output of the TIAF AR script, you can gather information about the AR run's environment and the TIAF runtime invocation. For this example, observe the following details:

- The arguments used to invoke the AR script are as follows:

    ```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    --config="%OUTPUT_DIRECTORY%/bin/TestImpactFramework/profile/Persistent/tiaf.json"
    --src-branch=%BRANCH_NAME% 
    --dst-branch=%CHANGE_TARGET% 
    --commit=%CHANGE_ID% 
    --s3-bucket=%TEST_IMPACT_S3_BUCKET% 
    --mars-index-prefix=o3de-tiaf 
    --s3-top-level-dir=%REPOSITORY_NAME% 
    --build-number=%BUILD_NUMBER% 
    --suites smoke main 
    --label-excludes REQUIRES_gpu 
    --test-failure-policy=continue 
    --runtime-type=python 
    --testrunner=live 
    --target-output=stdout

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Historic data was successfully retrieved from the above location.
- The last AR run for this branch was for commit `4b65521188a2a0beb399eca7b692216d2fe3d209`.
- A change list was constructed for the changes between the above two commits, resulting in `5` created files, `69` updated files and `2` deleted files.
- The test failure policy was set to `continue`, and the test suites that tests would be selected from were `main` and `smoke`.
- Any test targets with the label `REQUIRES_gpu` were excluded from test selection.
- The test target output was routed to the Jenkins console output.
- The arguments used to invoke the native TIAF runtime were as follows:

    ```
    --sequence=tianowrite 
    --fpolicy=continue 
    --suites=main,smoke 
    --labelexcludes=REQUIRES_gpu 
    --ipolicy=continue --changelist=D:\workspace\o3de\build\windows\bin\TestImpactFramework\profile\Temp\Native\changelist.06011392e5a7456e817cda03f8f8c606.json 
    --report=D:\workspace\o3de\build\windows\bin\TestImpactFramework\profile\Temp\Native\Reports\report.06011392e5a7456e817cda03f8f8c606.json 
    --targetout=stdout
    ```

To reproduce this particular AR run, perform the following steps:

> 1. Recreate the historic data locally.
> 2. Build and run the commit failing in AR.
> 3. Run the TIAF runtime with a debugger attached.

Reviewer: Remove this here, we moved it to the top of the section
```suggestion
```

                "justMyCode": true,
                "args": [
                    "--config", "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/tiaf.json", // Replace with your build path to tiaf.json
                    "--src-branch", "development", // src and dst must be same in order to write out historic data
                    "--dst-branch", "development", // Note: the src and dst branches can be any name and do not need to refer to real, existing branches
                    "--commit", "4b65521188a2a0beb399eca7b692216d2fe3d209",
                    "--mars-index-prefix", "o3de-tiaf",
                    "--build-number", "001", // The build number can be anything
                    "--suites", "smoke", "main", // The suites must match those used in AR
                    "--label-excludes", "REQUIRES_gpu", // The label exclude filters must match those used in AR
                    "--test-failure-policy", "continue",
                    "--target-output", "stdout",
                    "--runtime-type", "native" // change to "python" for Python TIAF
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
```

> Add the previously mentioned **Step 3**
> ```suggestion

Reviewer: Stray comment that shouldn't have been in the suggestion
```suggestion
```

> To reproduce a TIAF run locally, you must first obtain all of the environmental information about the run. You can do this by navigating to the appropriate Jenkins build and clicking on either the `test_impact_analysis_profile_native` or `test_impact_analysis_profile_python` stages to retrieve the console output. At the very top of the console output, you will see the output of the TIAF AR scripts prior to the invocation of the appropriate runtime, like so:

Author: @chanmosq yes, it is the `tiaf_driver.py` script 👍

    ```

To reproduce this particular AR run, perform the following steps:

1. Recreate the historic data locally.
2. Build and run the commit failing in AR.
3. Run the TIAF runtime with a debugger attached.

### Step 1: Recreate the historic data locally

To recreate the historic data locally, you can either use the [storage query tool](./storage-query-tool.md) to retrieve the relevant historic data for this run from the server running AR and place the contents in the `<build_path>/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/Native/historic/main-smoke` directory, or recreate the historic data from scratch. As the latter approach is the most reliable (as it does not require access to the persistent storage used by AR), this is the approach that will be described below.

Checkout and build the commit used by the last run (in this instance `4b65521188a2a0beb399eca7b692216d2fe3d209`). For native runs, it is recommended you build the `debug` configuration to make debugging easier but for Python runs you must build the `profile` configuration as, at the time of writing, Python tests will not execute properly with the `debug` build configuration.

> Run the TIAF using the AR scripts to generate the historic data used in the failing AR run locally. To do so, run the `tiaf_driver.py` script and supply the arguments used in the AR run. For this demonstration, Visual Studio Code will be used. 

Reviewer 2: Could you replace the `tiaf_driver.py` inline code snippet with a hyperlink to the file to locate help users locate it within the engine?.

```suggestion
Run the TIAF using the AR scripts to generate the historic data used in the failing AR run locally. To do so, run the [tiaf_driver.py](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/development/scripts/build/TestImpactAnalysis/tiaf_driver.py) script and supply the arguments used in the AR run. For this demonstration, Visual Studio Code will be used. 
```

The script configuration file used for this step is as follows:

```json
{
    // Use IntelliSense to learn about possible attributes.
    // Hover to view descriptions of existing attributes.

>     // For more information, visit: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=830387

Reviewer 3: Just to verify that the json parser that the tiaf_driver uses handles these comments right?

Author: Sorry, I realise this is not exactly clear (it's the VS Code `launch.json`). I've clarified this and linked to the MS page describing this config file 👍

The script configuration file used for this step is as follows:

```json
{
    // Use IntelliSense to learn about possible attributes.
    // Hover to view descriptions of existing attributes.
    // For more information, visit: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=830387
    "version": "0.2.0",
    "configurations": [
        {
            "name": "Python: Current File",
            "type": "python",
            "request": "launch",
            "program": "${file}",
            "console": "integratedTerminal",
            "justMyCode": true,
            "args": [

>                 "--config", "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/tiaf.json", // Replace with your build path

Reviewer 2: Would it be safer and more siloed to use a different CMake build folder for gathering the historic data vs building the user commits that fails?

That way the user doesn't have to worry about archiving the contents of the `Persistent` directory if they use a different folder.

Since the the path to the `tiaf.json` can be supplied via the `--config` option, it can just be supplied from the data in the other build folder.

It also avoids any cross contamination of build artifacts that could cause per user environment issues.

Reviewer 2: To provide an example.
Gathering the historic run data can be done in a cmake configure directory of `C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_tiaf_historic`, while the build to reproduce the test failure can be configured in a directory of `C:/dev/o3de/build/windows`.

That way there is a clear separation between the two and it is easy to cleanup one without affecting the other.
If the user needs to do a clean build of their branch with the test failure in it, they can just delete their `C:/dev/o3de/build/windows` directory and recreate it while still maintaining the persistent data

Author: One option would be to have a CMake var called something like `O3DE_TEST_IMPACT_CLEAR_RUNTIME_ARTIFACTS` that, when set, will clear the contents of the `Temp` and `Persistent` folders for each runtime. We could have this `TRUE` by default, and have the `profile` configs in `build_config.json` set this var to `TRUE`. Thoughts?

Author: >Would it be safer and more siloed to use a different CMake build folder for gathering the historic data vs building the user commits that fails?

The only issue I see with this is that the `tiaf_driver.py` script is designed such that each successive run of the script will update (read: replace) the existing historical data with the latest test run and coverage results. I'm not sure if there is a practical way to have the separation between "last" and "current" without having to ping-pong between the two folders for each run (clearing the "current" prior to invoking the runtime) which seems like it would be contrary to the philosophy of keeping those separate.

Author: We discussed a command lien arg to be added, I will update this PR with a suggestion for how to preserve the historic data locally using the existing config files, @lumberyard-employee-dm is going to add a new command line arg to override the persistent storage location as a quality of life improvement and open up a PR with the updated docs when that improvement is in 👍

- A change list was constructed for the changes between the above two commits, resulting in `5` created files, `69` updated files and `2` deleted files.
- The test failure policy was set to `continue`, and the test suites that tests would be selected from were `main` and `smoke`.
- Any test targets with the label `REQUIRES_gpu` were excluded from test selection.
- The test target output was routed to the Jenkins console output.
- The arguments used to invoke the native runtime were as follows:

    ```
    --sequence=tianowrite --fpolicy=continue --suites=main,smoke --labelexcludes=REQUIRES_gpu --ipolicy=continue --changelist=D:\workspace\o3de\build\windows\bin\TestImpactFramework\profile\Temp\Native\changelist.06011392e5a7456e817cda03f8f8c606.json --report=D:\workspace\o3de\build\windows\bin\TestImpactFramework\profile\Temp\Native\Reports\report.06011392e5a7456e817cda03f8f8c606.json --targetout=stdout
    ```

To reproduce this particular AR run, perform the following steps:

1. Recreate the historic data locally.
2. Build and run the commit failing in AR.
3. Run the TIAF runtime with a debugger attached.

### Step 1: Recreate the historic data locally

> To recreate the historic data locally, you can either use the [storage query tool](./storage-query-tool.md) to retrieve the relevant historic data for this run from the server running AR and place the contents in the `<build_path>/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/Native/historic/main-smoke` directory, or recreate the historic data from scratch. As the latter approach is the most reliable (as it does not require access to the persistent storage used by AR), this is the approach that will be described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most reliable way to recreate the historic data locally is from scratch, as it does not require access to the persistent storage used by AR. Alternatively, you can also use the [storage query tool](./storage-query-tool.md) to retrieve the relevant historic data for this run from the server running AR and place the contents in the `<build_path>/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/Native/historic/main-smoke` directory. 

For this set of instructions, you will recreate the historic data locally from scratch.
```

For this set of instructions, you will recreate the historic data locally from scratch.

Checkout and build the commit used by the last run (in this instance `4b65521188a2a0beb399eca7b692216d2fe3d209`). For native runs, it is recommended you build the `debug` configuration to make debugging easier but for Python runs you must build the `profile` configuration as, at the time of writing, Python tests will not execute properly with the `debug` build configuration.

Run the TIAF using the AR scripts to generate the historic data used in the failing AR run locally. To do so, run the [tiaf_driver.py](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/blob/development/scripts/build/TestImpactAnalysis/tiaf_driver.py) script and supply the arguments used in the AR run. For this demonstration, Visual Studio Code will be used. 

The script configuration file used for this step is as follows:

```json

> {
>     // Use IntelliSense to learn about possible attributes.
>     // Hover to view descriptions of existing attributes.
>     // For more information, visit: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=830387
>     "version": "0.2.0",
>     "configurations": [
>         {
>             "name": "Python: Current File",
>             "type": "python",
>             "request": "launch",
>             "program": "${file}",
>             "console": "integratedTerminal",
>             "justMyCode": true,
>             "args": [
>                 "--config", "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/tiaf.json", // Replace with your build path to tiaf.json
>                 "--src-branch", "development", // src and dst must be same in order to write out historic data
>                 "--dst-branch", "development", // Note: the src and dst branches can be any name and do not need to refer to real, existing branches
>                 "--commit", "4b65521188a2a0beb399eca7b692216d2fe3d209",
>                 "--mars-index-prefix", "o3de-tiaf",
>                 "--build-number", "001", // The build number can be anything
>                 "--suites", "smoke", "main", // The suites must match those used in AR
>                 "--label-excludes", "REQUIRES_gpu", // The label exclude filters must match those used in AR
>                 "--test-failure-policy", "continue",
>                 "--target-output", "stdout",
>                 "--runtime-type", "native" // change to "python" for Python TIAF
>             ]
>         }
>     ]
> }

Reviewer: Only indents
```suggestion
    {
        "version": "0.2.0",
        "configurations": [
            {
                "name": "Python: Current File",
                "type": "python",
                "request": "launch",
                "program": "${file}",
                "console": "integratedTerminal",
                "justMyCode": true,
                "args": [
                    "--config", "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/tiaf.json", // Replace with your build path to tiaf.json
                    "--src-branch", "development", // src and dst must be same in order to write out historic data
                    "--dst-branch", "development", // Note: the src and dst branches can be any name and do not need to refer to real, existing branches
                    "--commit", "4b65521188a2a0beb399eca7b692216d2fe3d209",
                    "--mars-index-prefix", "o3de-tiaf",
                    "--build-number", "001", // The build number can be anything
                    "--suites", "smoke", "main", // The suites must match those used in AR
                    "--label-excludes", "REQUIRES_gpu", // The label exclude filters must match those used in AR
                    "--test-failure-policy", "continue",
                    "--target-output", "stdout",
                    "--runtime-type", "native" // change to "python" for Python TIAF
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
```

```

> When the script has completed execution you will find the same historic data used in AR at the location `<build_path>/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/Native/historic/main-smoke`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the previously mentioned **Step 3**
```suggestion
3. Run the TIAF script to locally generates the historic data of the failing AR run.

After the script finishes executing, you can find the AR's historic data in the folder `<build_path>/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/Native/historic/main-smoke`. This local historic data is the same as the one from the Jenkins build you obtained in the [Prerequisite](#prerequisite) step.
```
```

> When the script has completed execution you will find the same historic data used in AR at the location `<build_path>/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/Native/historic/main-smoke`.

Reviewer: Add the previously mentioned **Step 3**
```suggestion
3. Run the TIAF script to locally generates the historic data of the failing AR run.

After the script finishes executing, you can find the AR's historic data in the folder `<build_path>/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/Native/historic/main-smoke`. This local historic data is the same as the one from the Jenkins build you obtained in the [Prerequisite](#prerequisite) step.
```

{{< tip >}}

> Subsequent runs of CMake will delete the contents of this directory. If you wish to place the historic data in another location to preserve it between runs of CMake, copy the `tiaf.json` file from your build location to somewhere convenient and modify the `root` path in the `historic` section of the appropriate runtime of this file to this new location. Now you can change the path for `config` argument in the `tiaf_driver.py` script to that of the `tiaf.json` configuration file you modified.

Reviewer: Anything that has multiple steps to follow should be formatted as a list for easy readability 
```suggestion
Subsequent runs of CMake will delete the contents of this directory. If you wish to preserve the historic data in between CMake runs, do the following: 
1. In your build path, copy the `tiaf.json` file to a new location (of your choice). 
2. In `tiaf.json`, in the `historic` section of the appropriate runtime, modify the `root` path to the new location.
3. In `tiaf_driver.py`, change the `config` argument to the new location of `tiaf.json`.
```

{{< /tip >}}

> ### Step 2: Build and run the commit failing in AR

Reviewer: @jonawals I noticed that my src branch is `development` in step 1, and `PR-15830` in step 2. Is the reason for this so I can create that diff between the historic data? It would be helpful if you can explain the reasoning here or clarify the comments in the code snippets better.

Author: You will need the coverage data generated from Step 1 in order to faithfully produce the state of AR in Step 2.

> 

Reviewer: Adding a purpose here to tie ideas together, helps digest and understand better.
```suggestion

The purpose of this step is to generate the change list and arguments used by the TIAF runtime. You will use these arguments in [Step 3: Run the TIAF runtime with a debugger attached](#step-3-run-the-tiaf-runtime-with-a-debugger-attached).

```

> Checkout the commit that is failing in AR (in this instance `85a0bd96daa4bd330d56bd817e8cdaf29d172b63`) and then run the TIAF using the AR scripts to generate the change list and arguments used by the runtime. It is important to set the `dst-branch` to the same branch used in the previous step but the `src-branch` to something different. This is for two reasons: firstly, it will ensure that we do not overwrite the historic data (as PR builds are not sources of truth and thus do not store their run data in the persistent storage) and secondly, it is required for generating change lists for unrelated previous and current commits (i.e. commits from unrelated branches).

Reviewer: Step 3 is added after configuring the Python file
```suggestion
1. Checkout the commit that's failing in AR (in this instance `85a0bd96daa4bd330d56bd817e8cdaf29d172b63`).
2. Configure the TIAF script to use the following arguments, which you obtained in the [Prerequisite](#prerequisite) step. 
```

> The script configuration file used for this step is as follows:
> 
> ```json
> {
>     // Use IntelliSense to learn about possible attributes.
>     // Hover to view descriptions of existing attributes.
>     // For more information, visit: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=830387
>     "version": "0.2.0",
>     "configurations": [
>         {
>             "name": "Python: Current File",
>             "type": "python",
>             "request": "launch",
>             "program": "${file}",
>             "console": "integratedTerminal",
>             "justMyCode": true,
>             "args": [
>                 "--config", "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/tiaf.json", // Replace with your build path
>                 "--src-branch", "PR-15830", // src and dst are different as this is a PR build
>                 "--dst-branch", "development",
>                 "--commit", "85a0bd96daa4bd330d56bd817e8cdaf29d172b63",
>                 "--build-number", "001", // The build number can be anything
>                 "--suites", "smoke", "main", // The suites must match those used in AR
>                 "--label-excludes", "REQUIRES_gpu", // The label exclude filters must match those used in AR
>                 "--test-failure-policy", "continue",
>                 "--target-output", "stdout",
>                 "--runtime-type", "native" // change to "python" for Python TIAF
>                ]
>         }
>     ]
> }
> ```

Reviewer: Indent code snippet. (The removed line was added to 2. above)
````suggestion
    ```json
    {
        // Use IntelliSense to learn about possible attributes.
        // Hover to view descriptions of existing attributes.
        // For more information, visit: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=830387
        "version": "0.2.0",
        "configurations": [
            {
                "name": "Python: Current File",
                "type": "python",
                "request": "launch",
                "program": "${file}",
                "console": "integratedTerminal",
                "justMyCode": true,
                "args": [
                    "--config", "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Persistent/tiaf.json", // Replace with your build path
                    "--src-branch", "PR-15830", // src and dst are different as this is a PR build
                    "--dst-branch", "development",
                    "--commit", "85a0bd96daa4bd330d56bd817e8cdaf29d172b63",
                    "--build-number", "001", // The build number can be anything
                    "--suites", "smoke", "main", // The suites must match those used in AR
                    "--label-excludes", "REQUIRES_gpu", // The label exclude filters must match those used in AR
                    "--test-failure-policy", "continue",
                    "--target-output", "stdout",
                    "--runtime-type", "native" // change to "python" for Python TIAF
                ]
            }
        ]
    }
    ```
````

> 

Reviewer: This bullet point underneath the JSON file is also a good place to clarify why we used different source branches across step 1 and step 2
```suggestion

        - It's important to set the `dst-branch` to the same branch used in the previous step but the `src-branch` to the PR build where the AR failed. This is for two reasons: firstly, it ensures that you don't overwrite the historic data (as PR builds are not sources of truth and thus do not store their run data in the persistent storage) and secondly, it is required for generating change lists for unrelated previous and current commits (such as commits from unrelated branches).

    3. Run the TIAF script to generate the change list and arguments used by the TIAF runtime.     
```

> When the script has completed execution you will see the same result as the failing AR run (in this instance, a crash) as well as the change list and arguments for the runtime.

Reviewer: I suggest moving up the list of arguments from step 3 to here. Reason is, observing these arguments is the result of completing step 2. 
````suggestion
After the script has executed, you will see the same result as the failing AR run (in this instance, a crash) as well as the change list and arguments for the TIAF runtime. The TIAF log output states the following command line options used by the TIAF runtime:
```
[2023-04-30 00:34:45,577][TIAF][INFO] Args: --sequence=tianowrite --fpolicy=continue --suites=main,smoke --labelexcludes=REQUIRES_gpu --ipolicy=continue --changelist=C:\dev\o3de\build\windows_vs2019\bin\TestImpactFramework\debug\Temp\Native\changelist.b9ad24eef8544d43a9d3fa75912532d4.json --report=C:\dev\o3de\build\windows_vs2019\bin\TestImpactFramework\debug\Temp\Native\Reports\report.b9ad24eef8544d43a9d3fa75912532d4.json --targetout=stdout
```
````

{{< note >}}

> This step need only be performed once and the change list and arguments reused as needed.

Reviewer: Change to active voice
```suggestion
You only need to do this step once, and you can reuse the change list and arguments as needed.
```

{{< /note >}}

### Step 3: Run the TIAF runtime with a debugger attached

> 
> In the previous step, the TIAF log output states the command line options used by the runtime:
> 
> ```
> [2023-04-30 00:34:45,577][TIAF][INFO] Args: --sequence=tianowrite --fpolicy=continue --suites=main,smoke --labelexcludes=REQUIRES_gpu --ipolicy=continue --changelist=C:\dev\o3de\build\windows_vs2019\bin\TestImpactFramework\debug\Temp\Native\changelist.b9ad24eef8544d43a9d3fa75912532d4.json --report=C:\dev\o3de\build\windows_vs2019\bin\TestImpactFramework\debug\Temp\Native\Reports\report.b9ad24eef8544d43a9d3fa75912532d4.json --targetout=stdout
> ```

Reviewer: We moved this to step 2
```suggestion
```

> Thus, the arguments we need to supply to the runtime in your IDE are as follows:
> 
> ```
> --sequence=tianowrite --fpolicy=continue --suites=main,smoke --labelexcludes=REQUIRES_gpu --ipolicy=continue --changelist=C:\dev\o3de\build\windows_vs2019\bin\TestImpactFramework\debug\Temp\Native\changelist.b9ad24eef8544d43a9d3fa75912532d4.json --report=C:\dev\o3de\build\windows_vs2019\bin\TestImpactFramework\debug\Temp\Native\Reports\report.b9ad24eef8544d43a9d3fa75912532d4.json --targetout=stdout
> ```
> 
> In your IDE, find the appropriate console front end project for the AR run (either `TestImpact.Frontend.Console.Native` or `TestImpact.Frontend.Console.Python`) and provide the arguments above. Now run the project with your debugger attached to find and fix the issue causing the AR failure.

Reviewer: Reformat into steps
````suggestion
1. In your IDE, find the appropriate console front end project for the AR run (either `TestImpact.Frontend.Console.Native` or `TestImpact.Frontend.Console.Python`).
2. Provide the following arguments, which you obtained in [Step 2: Build and run the commit failing in AR](#step-2-build-and-run-the-commit-failing-in-ar).

    ```
    --sequence=tianowrite --fpolicy=continue --suites=main,smoke --labelexcludes=REQUIRES_gpu --ipolicy=continue --changelist=C:\dev\o3de\build\windows_vs2019\bin\TestImpactFramework\debug\Temp\Native\changelist.b9ad24eef8544d43a9d3fa75912532d4.json --report=C:\dev\o3de\build\windows_vs2019\bin\TestImpactFramework\debug\Temp\Native\Reports\report.b9ad24eef8544d43a9d3fa75912532d4.json --targetout=stdout
    ```
3. Run the project with your debugger attached to find and fix the TIAF issue causing the AR failure.

````

> For this AR run, the cause of the crash was determined to be a bug due to an edge case where a test target had previously been opted-in to the TIAF (whereupon its coverage data was stored in the `historic_data.json` file used by the run), only for that test target to have been subsequently opted-out at a later date, causing a `nullptr` dereference that was fixed in commit `98dbed226cdae5afa5da25fe4bf84ae6760e4ac4`.

Reviewer: - Break down the sentences so it's easier to understand. 
- I think providing the PR is more insightful than the commit.  

```suggestion
For this AR run, the cause of the crash was due to an edge case where a test target was opted-in to the TIAF in a previous run, but opted-out in a subsequent run. When the test target was previously opted-in, its coverage data was stored in the `historic_data.json` file used by the run. Then, when the test target was opted-out, it caused a `nullptr` dereference. For more details about how this TIAF issue was resolved, refer to pull request [#15849](https://github.com/o3de/o3de/pull/15849) in the `o3de` repo.
```

{{< tip >}}
You will save a lot of time by reproducing issues with the TIAF itself locally rather than attempting to debug them in AR with the limited tooling available.
{{< /tip >}}

> ### Running failing tests

Reviewer: @jonawals Can you verify if this header more accurately describes the purpose of this section?
"Running failing tests", I feel like this is what we've been doing in the prior steps. I understand this section to be for the case where we want to run a specific test target that's failed.
```suggestion
### Running specific test targets
```

If the cause of the AR failure is a specific test target failing or crashing, find the offending test target in your IDE and run it with your debugger attached.

> To manually launch a given test target from the command line as per the method used by TIAF (for example, to inspect the test run and coverage data), open up the `historic_data.json` in the `Persistent` directory and locate the test target's `command_args` field in that file. For example, the (truncated) historic data for the local run in the first step shows the command line arguments needed to invoke the `Gem_Metastream.Tests` test target from your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To manually launch a given test target from the command line (for example, to inspect the test run and coverage data):
1. Open the `historic_data.json` in the `Persistent` directory and locate the test target's `command_args` field. 

    For example, the (truncated) historic data for the local run in the [Step 1](#step-1-recreate-the-historic-data-locally) shows the command line arguments needed to invoke the `Gem_Metastream.Tests` test target from your terminal:
```

> ```json
> "last_commit_hash":"4b65521188a2a0beb399eca7b692216d2fe3d209",
>    "historic_sequences":{
>       "4b65521188a2a0beb399eca7b692216d2fe3d209":null
>    },
>    "previous_test_runs":[
>       {
>          "name":"Gem_Metastream.Tests",
>          "command_args":"\"C:\\dev\\OpenCppCoverage\\x64\\Release\\OpenCppCoverage.exe\" --coverage_level source --export_type cobertura:\"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\bin\\TestImpactFramework\\debug\\Temp\\Native\\Coverage\\Metastream.Tests.xml\" --modules \"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\bin\\debug\" --excluded_modules \"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\bin\\debug\\AzTestRunner.exe\" --sources \"C:\\dev\\o3de\" -- \"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\bin\\debug\\AzTestRunner.exe\" \"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\bin\\debug\\Metastream.Tests.dll\" AzRunUnitTests --gtest_output=xml:\"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\Testing\\Gtest\\Gem_Metastream.Tests.xml\" ",
>          "start_time":2257721140,
>          "end_time":2258136771,
>          "duration":415631,
>          "result":"all_tests_pass",
>          "num_passing_tests":1,
>          "num_failing_tests":0,
>          "num_disabled_tests":0,
>          "tests":[
>             {
>                "name":"MetastreamTest.ServerStartupShutdownTest_FT",
>                "result":"passed"
>             }
>          ]
>       },
>       // rest of data removed for clarity
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
    ```json
    "last_commit_hash":"4b65521188a2a0beb399eca7b692216d2fe3d209",
    "historic_sequences":{
        "4b65521188a2a0beb399eca7b692216d2fe3d209":null
    },
    "previous_test_runs":[
        {
            "name":"Gem_Metastream.Tests",
            "command_args":"\"C:\\dev\\OpenCppCoverage\\x64\\Release\\OpenCppCoverage.exe\" --coverage_level source --export_type cobertura:\"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\bin\\TestImpactFramework\\debug\\Temp\\Native\\Coverage\\Metastream.Tests.xml\" --modules \"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\bin\\debug\" --excluded_modules \"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\bin\\debug\\AzTestRunner.exe\" --sources \"C:\\dev\\o3de\" -- \"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\bin\\debug\\AzTestRunner.exe\" \"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\bin\\debug\\Metastream.Tests.dll\" AzRunUnitTests --gtest_output=xml:\"C:\\dev\\o3de\\build\\windows_vs2019\\Testing\\Gtest\\Gem_Metastream.Tests.xml\" ",
            "start_time":2257721140,
            "end_time":2258136771,
            "duration":415631,
            "result":"all_tests_pass",
            "num_passing_tests":1,
            "num_failing_tests":0,
            "num_disabled_tests":0,
            "tests":[
                {
                "name":"MetastreamTest.ServerStartupShutdownTest_FT",
                "result":"passed"
                }
            ]
        }
    
        // rest of data removed for clarity
    ]
    ```
````

To run `Gem_Metastream.Tests` test target from your terminal, use the following command, changing the paths to your build of OpenCppCoverage and O3DE accordingly:

> ```
> C:/dev/OpenCppCoverage/x64/Release/OpenCppCoverage.exe --coverage_level source --export_type cobertura:"C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Temp/Native/Coverage/Metastream.Tests.xml" --modules "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/debug" --excluded_modules "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/debug/AzTestRunner.exe" --sources "C:/dev/o3de" -- "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/debug/AzTestRunner.exe" "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/debug/Metastream.Tests.dll" AzRunUnitTests --gtest_output=xml:"C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/Testing/Gtest/Gem_Metastream.Tests.xml"
> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion

    ```
    C:/dev/OpenCppCoverage/x64/Release/OpenCppCoverage.exe --coverage_level source --export_type cobertura:"C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/TestImpactFramework/debug/Temp/Native/Coverage/Metastream.Tests.xml" --modules "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/debug" --excluded_modules "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/debug/AzTestRunner.exe" --sources "C:/dev/o3de" -- "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/debug/AzTestRunner.exe" "C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/bin/debug/Metastream.Tests.dll" AzRunUnitTests --gtest_output=xml:"C:/dev/o3de/build/windows_vs2019/Testing/Gtest/Gem_Metastream.Tests.xml"
    ```
````

    }
    ```

After the script has executed, you will see the same result as the failing AR run (in this instance, a crash) as well as the change list and arguments for the TIAF runtime. The TIAF log output states the following command line options used by the TIAF runtime:
```

> [2023-04-30 00:34:45,577][TIAF][INFO] Args: --sequence=tianowrite --fpolicy=continue --suites=main,smoke --labelexcludes=REQUIRES_gpu --ipolicy=continue --changelist=C:\dev\o3de\build\windows_vs2019\bin\TestImpactFramework\debug\Temp\Native\changelist.b9ad24eef8544d43a9d3fa75912532d4.json --report=C:\dev\o3de\build\windows_vs2019\bin\TestImpactFramework\debug\Temp\Native\Reports\report.b9ad24eef8544d43a9d3fa75912532d4.json --targetout=stdout

Reviewer 2: Is the --sequence argument missing the letter 'f'?

Author: The arg is correct, it's "test impact analysis, no write". It's not the greatest name, and I think it's worth making an issue to revisit all of the tiaf args and their names 👍
